Add Alerts System to nRF Cloud (#9920)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/networking/nrf_cloud_alerts.rst

Alerts messages are designed to be compact JSON documents that indicate the occurrence of a critical event, such as a low battery or unexpected reset.

Overview
********

This library provides an API for either REST-based or MQTT-based applications to send alerts to nRF Cloud.
For MQTT-based applications, users can enable or disable alerts remotely using the nRF Cloud portal or REST API.

Each alert contains the following elements:

* :c:enum:`nrf_cloud_alert_type` alert type
* Floating point value
* Pointer to an optional description string
* Sequence number
* Timestamp

The range of the alert type enumeration is split into two parts:

* Values less than :c:enumerator:`ALERT_TYPE_CUSTOM` are predefined
* Values greater or equal to that are for application-specific use

Use the alert value to indicate more information about an alert.
For example, with the :c:enumerator:`ALERT_TYPE_TEMPERATURE`, it could represent the temperature in degrees Celcius.

Use the description string to indicate more detail about a specific alert, if required.

The nRF Cloud alerts library sets the sequence number and timestamp automatically.

> The nRF Cloud Alerts service uses these values to present the alerts in the actual sequence they were generated on the device.

Reviewer: Also, I think just `doc: Document nrf_cloud_alerts library` would be fine as the commit headline

.. _lib_nrf_cloud_alerts:

nRF Cloud Alerts
################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This library is an enhancement to the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
The nRF Cloud alerts library enables applications to generate and transmit messages that comply with the alerts feature of nRF Cloud.

> Alerts messages are designed to be compact JSON documents that indicate the occurrence of a critical event, such as a low battery or unexpected reset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alerts messages are compact JSON documents that indicate a critical event, such as low battery or unexpected reset.
```

Overview
********

This library provides an API for either REST-based or MQTT-based applications to send alerts to nRF Cloud.

> For MQTT-based applications, users can enable or disable alerts remotely using the nRF Cloud portal or REST API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For MQTT-based applications, you can enable or disable alerts remotely using the nRF Cloud portal or REST API.
```

> Each alert contains the following elements, as defined in the structure :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_alert_info`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each alert contains the following elements, as defined in the :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_alert_info` structure :
```

> * :c:member:`type` - a with a value of the :c:enum:`nrf_cloud_alert_type` enum

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :c:member:`type` - A value of the :c:enum:`nrf_cloud_alert_type` enum.
```

> * :c:member:`value` - use 0 if not otherwise needed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :c:member:`value` - Use ``0`` if not otherwise needed.
```

> * :c:member:`description` - use NULL to suppress transmission of this field

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :c:member:`description` - Use NULL to suppress transmission of this field.
```

> * :c:member:`sequence` - Sequence number used when no timestamp is available

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :c:member:`sequence` - Sequence number used when no timestamp is available.
```

> * :c:member:`ts_ms` - Timestamp if accurate time is known

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :c:member:`ts_ms` - Timestamp if accurate time is known.
```

The range of the alert type enumeration is split into two parts:

> * Values less than :c:enumerator:`ALERT_TYPE_CUSTOM` are predefined
> * Values greater or equal to that are for application-specific use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Values less than :c:enumerator:`ALERT_TYPE_CUSTOM` are predefined.
* Values greater or equal to that are for application-specific use.
```

Use the alert value to indicate more information about an alert.
For example, with the :c:enumerator:`ALERT_TYPE_TEMPERATURE`, it could represent the temperature in degrees Celcius.

> Use the description string to indicate more detail about a specific alert, if required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the description string to indicate more details about a specific alert, if required.
```

> The nRF Cloud alerts library sets the sequence number and timestamp automatically.
> The nRF Cloud alerts service uses these values to present the alerts in the actual sequence they were generated on the device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The library sets the sequence number and timestamp automatically.
The nRF Cloud Alerts service uses these values to present the alerts in the actual sequence they were generated on the device.
```

Supported features
==================

If the :ref:`lib_date_time` library is enabled, and the current date and time are known, the timestamp field of the alert will be automatically set accordingly.

> If the :ref:`lib_date_time` library is not enabled, the sequence number will be set to a monotonically-increasing value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, the sequence number will be set to a monotonically-increasing value.
```

Requirements
************

> The device must be connected to nRF Cloud prior to calling the :c:func:`nrf_cloud_alert_send` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The device must be connected to nRF Cloud before calling the :c:func:`nrf_cloud_alert_send` function.
```

> The :c:func:`nrf_cloud_rest_alert_send` function initiates the connection as needed.

Author: I am trying to explain that the user does not need to worry about whether the device is currently connected to the cloud or not.  The connection will be made if it is not currently connected.

Configuration
*************

> Configure the following options to enable or disable the use of this library:

Author: I changed it to this, since the first option listed is for enabling/disabling, but the second is to select the transport method:
`Configure the following options to enable or disable the library and to select the data transport method:`

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_ALERTS`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_MQTT` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_REST`

See :ref:`configure_application` for information on how to change configuration options.

Usage
*****

> In order to use this library, do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this library, complete the following steps:
```

> * Include the :file:`nrf_cloud_alerts.h` file.
> * Define a local variable of type :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_alert_info`.
> * Initialize the structure members:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Include the :file:`nrf_cloud_alerts.h` file.
#. Define a local variable of type :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_alert_info`.
#. Initialize the structure members:
```

>   * :c:member:`type` - a with a value of the :c:enum:`nrf_cloud_alert_type` enum
>   * :c:member:`value` - use 0 if not otherwise needed
>   * :c:member:`description` - use NULL to suppress transmission of this field

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * :c:member:`type` - A value of the :c:enum:`nrf_cloud_alert_type` enum.
  * :c:member:`value` - Use 0 if not otherwise needed.
  * :c:member:`description` -Use NULL to suppress transmission of this field.
```

> * Call either :c:func:`nrf_cloud_alert_send` when connected to nRF Cloud using MQTT or :c:func:`nrf_cloud_rest_alert_send` when connecting to nRF Cloud using REST.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Call either :c:func:`nrf_cloud_alert_send` when connected to nRF Cloud using MQTT or :c:func:`nrf_cloud_rest_alert_send` when using REST.
```

Samples using the library
*************************

The following |NCS| samples use this library:

* :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service`
* :ref:`nrf_cloud_rest_device_message`

Limitations
***********

> For REST-based applications, alerts can be enabled or disabled only at compile time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For REST-based applications, you can enable or disable alerts only at compile time.
```
